A country's most valuable asset is its scholars. The goverment of a country should place the utmost importance on education for all, which includes a curriculum that is at par with international standards, is inclusive and prepares the students to face the challenges and demanding tasks of a professional career.

This task is easier said than done. Developing nations like India have students from myriad walks of life, belonging to varying socioeconomic strata. Some of these students come from affluent backgrounds, where they can afford to pursue a non-conventional career path that is not as lucrative as one might desire initially, as they have their parents funding their education. On the other hand, the poorest of the poor send their children to school and higher education in the hopes that they bag a well-paying job to pull them out of impoverishment. A student from such a situation needs a curriculum that focuses on professional skills, such as science, medicine, finance or technology. 

Therefore, a government should consider all students' requirements from their primary, secondary and higher secondary education and design a national curriculum that is standardized and caters to all. Therefore, a national curriculum is essential for students until they enter college, where they can choose their desired courses. 

On paper, a national curriculum is an ideal solution and easy to implement. However, catering to millions of students is no easy task. To begin with, getting certain private institutions to comply with the national curriculum can prove difficult. Such a national curriculum has to cater to both the weakest and the strongest student. This makes the private institutions apprehensive to accept this curriculum lest their standards drop, which is not an unfounded fear.

Secondly, reaching each and every one of the thousands of schools in a nation is a near-impossible task. Some goverment schools might not have the resources to support the national curriculum. So they might accept the curriculum on paper, but stick to a weaker, less holistic education plan.

Therefore, while a national curriculum is a necessity, implementing it is a serious challenge. A goverment has to conduct extensive research into a good sample size of the schools in a certain socioeconomic section and design a robust curriculum based on the findings. This will result in a unified talent pool, which will support a nation's growth in leaps and bounds.

